Add initial ENSNode API Querying Best Practices (#89)
namehash/ensnode: docs/querying_best_practices.md

- The [ENSIP-15: ENS Name Normalization Standard](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/15) may change across time such that the set of normalizable names grows (thankfully it should never shrink). For example, consider a new Unicode release that standardizes new emoji. The ENS Normalize standard may subsequently change to expand support for those new emoji.

Therefore, always use the node of a name (calculated by the namehash of the name) as the stable identifier when querying the ENSNode API. The node of a name is immutable across time.

### Recommended Query Patterns

There are two distinct patterns for querying names, depending on the source of the name:

#### Pattern 1: Names from User Input

When querying for names that originate from user input (e.g., search fields, user-entered addresses), always:

> 1. Normalize the name according to ENSIP-15

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Normalize the name according to ENSIP-15.
```

2. Calculate the namehash/ID from the normalized name on the client side 
3. Query using the id of the name, rather than the name itself (for backwards compatibility with the ENS Subgraph, the id of the name is actually the node of the name, as calculated by namehash of the name).

Example:

> First, let's prepare the name for querying by normalizing it and calculating its namehash:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's prepare the name for querying by normalizing it and calculating its node:
```

```typescript

> import { normalize } from '@ensdomains/ensjs/utils'

Reviewer: We can remove this line because a lot more people use viem than use ensjs, and viem includes ens normalize. Please see my next comment below.

> import { namehash } from 'viem/ens'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { namehash, normalize } from 'viem/ens'
```

// 1. Normalize the user input according to ENSIP-15

> const userInput = 'vitalik.eth'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const userInput = 'Vitalik.eth'
```

const normalizedName = normalize(userInput)

> // 2. Calculate the namehash/ID from the normalized name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// 2. Calculate the node from the normalized name
```

> const nameId = namehash(normalizedName)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const node = namehash(normalizedName)
```

```

> Now we can use this ID to query the ENSNode API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now use this node to query the domain id in the ENSNode API:
```

```graphql
{
  domain(id: "0xee6c4522aab0003e8d14cd40a6af439055fd2577951148c14b6cea9a53475835") {
    id
    name
    labelName
    labelhash
    createdAt
  }
}
```

The query will return the domain information:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "domain": {
      "createdAt": "1497775154",
      "id": "0xee6c4522aab0003e8d14cd40a6af439055fd2577951148c14b6cea9a53475835",
      "labelName": "vitalik",
      "labelhash": "0xaf2caa1c2ca1d027f1ac823b529d0a67cd144264b2789fa2ea4d63a67c7103cc",
      "name": "vitalik.eth"
    }
  }
}
```

Here's a complete example showing how to put it all together using a GraphQL client:

```typescript

> import { normalize } from '@ensdomains/ensjs/utils'

Reviewer: We can remove this import from ensjs. Please see related comment above.

> import { namehash } from 'viem/ens'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { namehash, normalize } from 'viem/ens'
```

import { createClient } from 'graphql-request'

async function queryENSName(userInput: string) {
  // 1. Normalize the user input
  const normalizedName = normalize(userInput)
  

>   // 2. Calculate the namehash/ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // 2. Calculate the node
```

>   const nameId = namehash(normalizedName)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const node = namehash(normalizedName)
```

  
  // 3. Set up the GraphQL client
  const client = createClient({
    url: 'YOUR_ENSNODE_ENDPOINT'
  })
  
  // 4. Define the query
  const query = `
    query GetDomain($id: ID!) {
      domain(id: $id) {
        id
        name
        labelName
        labelhash
        createdAt
      }
    }
  `
  
  // 5. Execute the query

>   const result = await client.request(query, { id: nameId })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const result = await client.request(query, { id: node })
```

  return result
}
```

#### Pattern 2: Names from Onchain Data

> When querying for names that originate from onchain data (e.g., ENS NFTs, contract events), you must:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When querying for name values sourced directly from onchain data (e.g., ENS NFTs, contract events), you must:
```

> 1. Skip any normalization step - the name must be used exactly as it appears onchain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Skip any normalization step - the name value passed to namehash must be exactly as it appears onchain, even if unnnormalized
```

> 2. Calculate the namehash/ID directly from the onchain name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Calculate the node by taking the namehash of the onchain name (without any normalization)
```

> 3. Query using the id of the name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Query the domain id in the ENSNode API using the node of the name
```

> This pattern is crucial when dealing with unnormalized names that exist onchain. For example, if someone has registered "EXAMPLE.eth" (note the uppercase), attempting to normalize this name would result in looking up a different name than what exists onchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This pattern is crucial when dealing with unnormalized names that exist onchain. For example, if while examining onchain data you see a registration for "EXAMPLE.eth" (note the uppercase unnormalized characters), attempting to normalize this name in the process of querying ENSNode for additional information about it would result in looking up details for a different node in the ENS Registry (in this case the node for "example.eth" rather than "EXAMPLE.eth").
```

> The query structure remains the same as Pattern 1, but the input name and resulting ID will reflect the exact onchain data rather than a normalized version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query structure in Pattern 2 remains the same as Pattern 1, except the normalization step is skipped to ensure the node that you query data about is the intended node.
```

## Unnormalized Labels

ENSNode may return unnormalized labels associated with indexed names. It is important to note that **ENSNode clients should never attempt to normalize labels returned by ENSNode**. This is because when ENSNode returns an unnormalized label, that label is associated with a specific node that has been indexed. Normalizing an unnormalized label in this context would represent a different node.

There are effectively two distinct query patterns to consider:

> 1. User input → onchain data: Normalization is appropriate and necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. User input / offchain data → ENSNode data: Normalization is appropriate and necessary
```

> 2. Onchain data → output: Normalization should NOT be performed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Onchain data → ENSNode data: Normalization should NOT be performed
```

An ENSNode client is permitted to validate that all labels returned by ENSNode are in normalized form, and to reject any names with unnormalized labels from further processing. However, the key principle is that an ENSNode client should never normalize returned labels, as normalization transforms the label and therefore also the node associated with the name the label is contained within.

## Calculating the Node for Unknown Names

> According to [ENSIP-1](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/1#namehash-algorithm), the namehash algorithm makes no special consideration of unknown labels, and therefore interprets unknown labels literally. Due to this behavior, we strongly recommend using an "unknown label aware" namehash algorithm implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to [ENSIP-1](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/1#namehash-algorithm), the namehash algorithm makes no special consideration of unknown labels, and therefore interprets unknown labels literally. Due to this behavior, we recommend using an "unknown label aware" namehash algorithm implementation.
```

> A good example of such an implementation can be found in the viem library's namehash implementation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of such an implementation can be found in the viem library's namehash implementation:
```

> [viem namehash implementation](https://github.com/wevm/viem/blob/fe558fdef7e2e9cd5f3f57d8bdeae0c7ff67a1b0/src/utils/ens/namehash.ts#L36-L51)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [viem namehash implementation](https://github.com/wevm/viem/blob/fe558fdef7e2e9cd5f3f57d8bdeae0c7ff67a1b0/src/utils/ens/namehash.ts#L36-L51) correctly calculates the node of names containing unknown labels.
```
